docs/pandoc.md, before:

# Pandoc

You won't be able to use the main `convert.sh` script.

In stead, you'll have to manually run the individual script you are interested in (they can be found under `src/scripts`)

For these to work they must be invoked from the project's root, where they expect to find a hidden directory called `.manuscript`.

This directory must contain the full manuscript with the [expected format and structure](manuscript).

## Basics

Make sure you have both `pandoc` ([install](https://tug.org/mactex/morepackages.html) and [read](https://tug.org/mactex/BasicTeX.pdf)) and `basictex` ([install](https://pandoc.org/installing.html) and [read](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.pdf)) installed and working on your system.

Install the next libraries with the TeX Live Manager (tlmgr) as admin:

```shell
tlmgr update --self && tlmgr install tocloft && tlmgr install emptypage && tlmgr install footmisc && tlmgr install titlesec && tlmgr install wallpaper && tlmgr install roboto && tlmgr install incgraph && tlmgr install tcolorbox && tlmgr install environ
```

When in doubt, you can expect the `Dockerfile` to function as an updated list of dependencies.

## Ghostscript

The scripts use Ghostscript to do a final merge of the complete book (if converting to PDF), make sure its installed and available in your systems `PATH`.

We tried using `pdfunite`, but we couldn't make it preserve the links to the chapters in the TOC.

## Sed

GNU's version of `sed` is needed for the book to render properly.

Ensure you have the right version on your machine (Busybox, BSD, Alpine Linux and MacOS users might have to install a different version).

An easy way to check if your `sed` flavor is causing issues is to have a look at the code block's language tags.

If you see `\uLANGUAGE_NAME` with no capitalization, you'll need to install the GNU version.

Commit message:

update docs according to new pdf.sh script

docs/pandoc.md, after:

# Pandoc

You won't be able to use the main `convert.sh` script.

In stead, you'll have to manually run the individual script you are interested in (they can be found under `src/scripts`)

Keep in mind that the `pdf.sh` script will generate a print-ready file **or** a full color PDF for screen viewing
based on the parameters it receives (`print` & `book` for a print-ready version or `screen` & `report` for a
screen-ready PDF).

For these to work they must be invoked from the project's root, where they expect to find a hidden directory called `.manuscript`.

This directory must contain the full manuscript with the [expected format and structure](manuscript).

## Basics

Make sure you have both `pandoc` ([install](https://tug.org/mactex/morepackages.html) and [read](https://tug.org/mactex/BasicTeX.pdf)) and `basictex` ([install](https://pandoc.org/installing.html) and [read](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.pdf)) installed and working on your system.

Install the next libraries with the TeX Live Manager (tlmgr) as admin:

```shell
tlmgr update --self && tlmgr install tocloft && tlmgr install emptypage && tlmgr install footmisc && tlmgr install titlesec && tlmgr install wallpaper && tlmgr install roboto && tlmgr install incgraph && tlmgr install tcolorbox && tlmgr install environ
```

When in doubt, you can expect the `Dockerfile` to function as an updated list of dependencies.

## Ghostscript

The scripts use Ghostscript to do a final merge of the complete book (if converting to PDF), make sure its installed and available in your systems `PATH`.

We tried using `pdfunite`, but we couldn't make it preserve the links to the chapters in the TOC.

## Sed

GNU's version of `sed` is needed for the book to render properly.

Ensure you have the right version on your machine (Busybox, BSD, Alpine Linux and MacOS users might have to install a different version).

An easy way to check if your `sed` flavor is causing issues is to have a look at the code block's language tags.

If you see `\uLANGUAGE_NAME` with no capitalization, you'll need to install the GNU version.
